# Div Information

For those extra interested in some weird stuff in this application.

## Git terminal

Not necessary, but its useful to know your way around on a terminal.

- **LIST ALL BRANCHES** `git branch`
- **CHANGE BRANCH** `git checkout <branch-name>` (only works if there is now changes since last commit)
- **NEW BRANCH** `git checkout -b <branch-name>` (also moves to that branch)
- **GIT STATUS** `git status`
- Create new commit and push to gitlab:

  - **CHOOSE WHAT CHANGES TO COMMIT** `git add <file-name>` (write . instead of file name to select all files)
  - **COMMIT** `git commit -m "<Your commit message>"` (not having the `-m` flag will open vim and you can press `i` to type your message, then `esc`, then write `:wq` and press `enter`)
  - **PUSH** `git push` and copy the suggestion that is shown and run that.

- **PULL NEW CHANGES** `git pull`

> Pro tip: `oh-my-zsh` comes with a lot of aliases (shortcuts) for all these commands.

## Filestructure

99% of the coding for this app happens inside the `src` folder, hopefully you are a bit familiar with that by now.

Everything else explained (very short):

- `package.json` is where all dependencies (packages installed with `npm`) is listed aswell as all the scripts you can run using `npm run <scriptname>`.
- `package-lock.json` is a more detailed list of all dependencies, and dependencies own dependencies along specific version numbers etc. Long autogenerated file, just ignore this.
- `node_modules/`. Whereas all dependencies/packages are listed in the mentioned files, this folder is where they actually get downloaded. This file is ignored by `git` since it would be way to much to upload every time. Hence the mentioned lists and you having to run `npm install` every so often.
- `dist/`. This shows up if you run `npm run build` and is just a compiled version of all the other source code. What you would actually use for `prod`. We dont bother.
- `.eslintrc.cjs`. Eslint configuration, decide what rules to follow in the code. Eslint will f.eks. let you know if you have an unused variable.
- `.gitlab-ci-yml` this is the pipeline jobs that run on gitlab for each merge request. Makes sure that your code is "good". If these fail, run `npm run prettier`and `npm run lint`and fix potential errors. Also make sure `npm run dev` works. Then just push the fixes in the same branch.
- `.gitignore`. Decide what files and folders git should ignore. F.eks. `node_modules` is written in here.
- `tsconfig.json`, `tsconfig.node.json` and `vite.config.ts` are files for configuring other things in the project.
